I never was much for this giving blood stuff.  I feel bad enough
most of the time as it is.

Could you give me Wendy's mail address?  She's not MACKAY@ATHENA.
Her account at OZ gets it mail there, but I dunno if she checks
it.

They're talking about her videodisk paper this week at the reading
seminar Mike Eisenberg and them do.

Why will you move to England?  I heard today that an MIT professor bought
an old castle and is operating it as a $80/night hotel.  At 475 years,
it's the oldest castle in England in use as a hotel.  It hasn't been
modified architecturally The guy is Prof. Stuart Madnick of Sloan. The
castle is in northeast England, near Newcastle.

Last night I was thinking about Noyuri and the middle line of a haiku
suggested itself.  My artistic endeavors suffer from a lack of art and a
surplus of craft, but here it is anyway:

 hira hira to
  ike ni utsutta
   yume no yuri

Wavering,
 reflected in the pond
the lily in my dream

I'm not sure about the hira-hira part, but I know there's an onomotopoetic
word of the same form that means what I want, but I just can't find it.
Hira-hira, if it works, would be good because it means fluttering like
something in the wind, but (I hope) could be taken to mean the reflection
wavering.  "utsutta" is the past tense of "usturu" (to reflect), a homonym
of the verb "to move, or to move away."  "Yume" means dream; the last line
is ambiguous -- it could mean that the flower is the one of my dreams or
that the image seems dreamlike.  Yuri is lily, as you may remember.  You
probably can't escape noticing the juxtiposition of the posessive "no."

Now, although many real haiku have a personal basis, they are always
expressed in such a way that the nature statement taken at face value (or
at least without reference to a particular experience) is meaningful or
expresses universal somethingorothers.  I've certainly failed in this
respect, but then again I'm not expecting much.

Contrast this poem with the first one I wrote for her, when she was still here:

 harusame mo
  ai-ai kasa de
 yuri no iro

The spring rain too,
 from under our umbrella
seems the color of lillies.

We first met in a light shower in Roppongi when she tried very hard to
hold an umbrella over my head, saying, "My name is Noyuri.  It means
field lily."

Noyuri's criticisms (which I extracted only at great pains) were that I
needn't have had both a season word and a pun, and that the lily is
traditionally a summer flower.

The middle line (ai-ai kasa de) is a phrase meaning something like "walk
together under an umbrella."  The sound "AI" is also the pronounciation of
"love," and the second "ai" (meeting) is written with the same kanji as
the second character for "yuri," though the pronounciation is completely
unrelated.  (Yuri is written "hundred meetings," but not pronounced in any
such way.)
