    REVISION NOTES 3.0 - THE RPG OF A NEW GENERATION

                                             (10/25/88)


                               General Rules & Mechanics

  * Range Modifiers: The most funadamental change in the system mechanics 
    involves range modifiers and their effects on combat and perception 
    rolls.  The range mod is designed to show how the area of the target 
    gets smaller as it gets farther away.  This new range mod chart is 
    universal; it is used for attacks, Perception, and all effects :

    Range       Adjacent   2-4"   5-8"  9-16"  17-32"       etc.

    Modifier    0           -0     -2    -4      -6         etc.

    Note that these range mods can be pro-rated for 
      the half-way ranges if GMs desire.

  * Effective Range: This optional rule can be used for
    increased realism.  Under this system, each attack has an
    effective range; an attack at a range takes an additional -2 
    multiplier for each multiple of the effective range.  The effective
    range of thrown weapons would be 5"; the ER of pistols and bows
    is 16"; the ER of shoulder arms is 32"; the ER of mounted
    weapons is 64" or even higher depending on the sights and
    stability of mounting.  Note that the effective range penalty
    will not apply to Champions powers. 

	Example: Say a derringer has an effectve range of 4".  
	When Randall fires his derringer at in opponent who is 5" away,
	the total range modifier is -2 (for range) + -2 (for effective
	range penalty) = -4.  If the foe were 16" away, then the range
	modifier would be -4 (for range) + -6 (for effective range) =
	-10.  If Randall started using his rifle (like he should have
	in the first place), the range mod would be -4 (for range) + -0
	(for effective range) = -4.

  * Ground Scale and Target Size: Ground Scale, using this
    format, is 1" = 2 meters att scale 1. Each +1 Scale doubles
    the hex size (4,8,16 meters...).  Target Size is based on 
    roughly human size (up to 2 meters and 100 kilograms at ground
    scale one.  Each +1 size increase doubles the height and 
    multiplies the mass by x8. 
 
    For every level that the size is greater than the Ground
    Scale, the DCV against ranged attacks is reduced by 2. For
    every level that the size is less than the ground scale, the
    DCV against ranged attacks is reduced by 2.  Another way to


    say this is that if the victim is half size, the attacker is
    at -2 OCV while using ranged attacks.  If the target is double
    size the attacker gets +2 OCV with ranged attacks.  Regardless
    of size, the attacker does not get any bonuses for H-to-H
    attacks.  The exception to this rule occurs when the target
    is DCV 0 (like surprised out of combat).  In this in stance
    the Ground Scale modifiers may act as a bonus in H-to-H (above
    and beyond by other bonuses for suprise )

	Example: Warhawk has sneaked up behind The Planetary
	Devourer while The villain is making short work of Neptune.
	Because Planetary Devourer (with 12 levels of Growth) is not
	aware of his attacker, hs is not taking any Defensive maneuvers,
	and his own vast size makes him easier to hit. Not only does
	Warhawk get to attack PD at 0 DCV, the hero also receives 
	a +24 to his HKA attack roll. 

  * Time Chart: A generalized Time Chart will now be included
    in the game, and will have a nunaber of uses, including the
    improvement of skill rolls, spell casting, etc.  The chart runs
    as follows:

			     1 Segment

			      l Phase

			 1 Turn (12 segments)

			      1 minute

			     10 minutes

			       1 hour

			      6 hours

			      1 day

			      1 week

			     1 month

			 1 season (3 months)

			      1 year

			     3 years

			     1 decade


  * Defenses: There will now be a simple note to the effect that
    staightforward layered defenses do not simply add together. 

	Example: If Chief Petty Officer Kowalski is wearing a bullet
	proof vest (PD 6) when the New Jerery is hit by a 16" Armor
	Piercing Shell, the vest will not appreciably protect the
	battleship (or Kowalski), even if the shell hits the vest
	square-on.


    Also note that normally, a weapon from a later era is considered
    to be armor-piercing against the defenses of an earlier
    epoch.  (Bullets can cut right through plate armor). 

  * Hesitating: If two characters decide to act at the same 
    time, defensive actions -block, dodge, dive for cover -
    always the precedence.  If both powers are non-defensive,
    then a DEX rolI determines precedence.  If the roll is a tie,
    then the two actions occur simultaneously. 

  * Knockback:   It will now be possible for a character in H-to-H to
    knock his opponent down into the earth instead of back.  The
    knockback damage from such an attack will be 1d6 per 2" of
    rolled Knock-back; the victim, assuming that any KB was done,
    will be knocked prone in his own hex.  Characters with Breakfall
    can avoid this damage normally. 

  * Targets and Cover: When using the to-hit chart, GMs should
    determine what hit parts of the target's body is visible. 
    The attacked then has the option to are at a specific location,
    use the special location chart, or just fire normally.  
    Once the hit location is determined, compare this to the cover;
     if the attack struck the cover then it was a miss (unless
    it can blow through the cover). 

  * Automaton:  40 pts.  This is used to build robots.  Robots are
    built like normal characters except that the have no STUN they
    may not buy it back).  Robots are immune to mental attacks and
    any NND attacks.  They are inoperative after they have taken
    all of their body.  Like a focus, a robot lose s one power for
    every 1 BODY that gets past the robot's defenses.  The following
    count as "Powers" that robots can lose:

	 10 pts of STR

	  1 pt of SPD

	  1 normal sense


  * Animals: Build Anirals like regular characters, starting with
    IOs in all the characteristics.  For summoning purposes therefore,
    animals begin with 125 pts. 

    The attacks of most animals are split to represent their reduced
    armor penetration, but the damage is kept together for the purposes
    of determining STUN. This is a -1/4 limitation. 

  * Combat Levels: Henceforth Combat levels will be bought according
    to the following chart:

      2pts              +1 with any singie attack or weapon

      3pts              +1 with 3 related maneuvers or attacks.
			In H-to H this would include any
			three manuevers. A 3 pt level can also
			add +1 to DCV against ranged or H-to-H
			attacks (but not both).               


      5pts              +1 with all H-to-H comLat, +1 with all
			ranged combat, or +1 with an unrelated
			group of attacks (like U.S. Infantry weapons). 
			A 5 pt levels can also add +1 to DCV against
			all attacks. 
      8pts              +1 with all combat.

    Note that all the various options for using Skill Levels will be
    taken from JI/DI, except the option that increases the Stun
    multiple of killing attacks. 

    Also note that if a combat level is applied to DCV, there will
    no longer be a distinction between ranged attacks and H-to-H
    attacks.  For example, if a brick applies his level with punch
    to his DCV, this will raise his DCV against all attacks.  (The
    old breakdown will be made an optional rule.)


		CHARACTERISTCS


  * Characteristics with Limitations: In order to fix the obvious
    crock, from now on any characteristic bought with any sort of
    limitation (yes, even - 1/4) will normally have no effect on
    the character's other characteristics.  Any limited characteristics
    that the player wants to affect the second ary characteristics
    must be purchased with the +1/2 advantage "Affects Secondary
    Characteristics."

    It will now be explicitly stated that any and all characteristics
    can be bought with Advantages and Limitations.


  (These enhanced or limited characteristics will be listed
   in the power section).


  Example: Ferrous Man buys an increased Strength to reflect the servo-motors
  in his suit of powered armor.  These points of Strength will have no effect
  on Ferrous man's PR, REC, or STUN.  However, Norse Storm-Hammer-God buys
  his STR with the -1/4 limitation "Only in Hero ID" (He's normally a wimpy
  doctor).  Since this is a mystical transformation and would affect his
  secondard stats (as well as saving him heap-loads of pts) he buys his
  limited STR with the advantage "Affects Secondary Stats"


  * EGO:  Ego will still be called EGO and will cost 2 pts per pip.
    Ego is intended to reflect the innate strength of the character's
    mind; his raw strength of "will." There will be an effort to define
    additional uses for Ego, especially in the little games.

  * Presence:  Presence attacks will now be applied against the
    higher of the target's attributes - Presence or EGO. Presence
    Defense has been saved from the refuse heap.  Note that PRE
    attacks will no longer use a multiplicr effect; the PRE Attack
    chart will look like:


       PRE Attack is                     Effect of Attack

       1x Targets PRE or EGO             Target is impressed...

       Target's PRE or EGO + 10          Target is very impressed...

       Target's PRE or EGO + 20          Target is awed...

       Target's PRE or EGO + 30          Target is cowed..


  * Char Maxima: There will be a new disadvantage: "Normal
    Characteristics", which will require the character to have
    "norms" characteristic maxima; if the character wants to go
    higher then he will have to pay double cost.  Since a disadvantage
    which isn't disadvantageous isn't worth any points, this will
    normally only be applied to Champions campaigns.  Also note
    that a character cannot take the "Age" disadvantage unless he
    has "normal" Characteristic Maxima.

  * STR:  We will be incorporating the rules for "casual Strength"
    from the AC. Under these rules, a character who is grabbed,
    entangled, etc.  immediately gets a chance to use half his STR
    to break out.  For example, if George Macdonald (a long Strength
    15) grabbed the Green (er, Gray) Leviathan (Base STR 75), then
    the GL could roll half his STR (35) to break out immediately.
    If successful, the Leviathan would not be DCV 0; he in effect
    shrugged off the grab.  This rule could also be used for breaking
    through windows without slowing down, etc. 



			OLD SKILLS


Use all the skills from all Hero Games; in the case of conflicts
use the costs from Danger International. Luck will be listed with
Talents, while talents like contacts, perks, money, vehicles,
equipment, and so forth will be listed in a new category called "Perks"
 
  * Acrobatics: This will now cost 3 points and will be divorced
    from Breakfall. It will allow its user to have improved chance,
    to perform interesting maneuvers, swing from chandeliers or
    grappling hooks, and to gain occasional bonuses in combat.  For
    performing surprise maneuvers.  It will also in corporate the
    Balance rules from JI, and will no longer impart a +2 DCV.

  * Breakfall: This 3 point skill will now be the "land on your feet
    when knocked down" skill.  A successful roll will also allow
    characters to survive KB without taking damage, unless the
    character is knocked back into a wall.  Characters who make their
    roll will land on their feet and need not take a 1/2 phase to
    stand up.  This roll must be made at - 1 per 2" Knocked Back.
    Breakfall will also incorporate the "Survive Falling" rules
    from the original write-up. 

  * Concealment:   This will be explicitly listed as the skill
    used to locate traps (although not the skill to remove them).
    It will also have all of its old uses. 


  * Swinging: This no longer exists as a skill.  Normals that want
    to be good at it can buy Acrobatics; super-powered swinging is
    now a power. 

  * Persuasion: this will be listed explicidy as the skill used to
    fool people and to tell a convincing lie.  It will be divorced
    entirely from Oratory (see Oratory in New Skills).

  * Everyman Skills: Will differ by genre; there will be a section
    explaining how the GM should determine the everyman skills. 

  Linguist: The basic rules will be the sare from Champions.  The
  languages chart will be included as an optional rule for greater realism.

  * Scholar: Use the old rules; note, however, that Area Knowledges,
    Culture Knowledges, and City Knowledges no longer fall into this
    category (see Traveller in New Skills).


  * Pro Skills: It will now be possible to buy these based on
    a characteristic roll (not a straight 11-) for 3 pts.  We will also
    include a long list of examples for each. 

  * Sciences: Although these use the same mechanics as Pro Skills,
    they will be listed separately for ease of use.  It will be
    noted that these are frequently, although by no means always,
    based on INT at a cost of 3 pts. 

  ** Martial Arts:

  Basic Maneuvers (These do not cost points)

  Name              OCV Mod     DCV Mod     Notes

  Block             0           0           Blocks

  Disarm            -3          -1

  Dodge             0           +3

  Grab              -1          -2

  Haymaker          0           -5          STR x 1.5; Takes an extra segment

  Kick              -2          -2          STR x 1.5; Takes an extra segment

  Move By           -2          -2          STR x 1/2 + v/5

  Move Through      -v/S-3      -3          STR + V/3

  Stike             0           0           STR



  Advanced/Special Manueuvers                               Cost

  Martial Punch     0           +2          5TR + 2d6       4 pts

  Martial Kick      -2          +1          STR + 4d6       5 pts

  Martial Block     +2          +2                          4 pts

  Martial Dodge     0           +5                          4 pts

  Martial Throw     +v/5        +1          +v/5            3 pts


  Martial Disarm    -1          -1                          3 pts

  Martial Move By/Thru -v/5     -1          +v/5            3 pts

  Martial Grab      0           0           +0              3 pts

  Chop              -1          0           1d6 KA          3 pts

  Nerve Blow/ Choke -1          -1          2d6 NND         4pts

  There is no longer a combination maneuver.



  +1 Damage Class we 1 attack               +1 DC            3 pts


  +1 Damage Class w/all attacks             +1 DC            5 pts


  These martial arts will be arranged in packages to reflect the
    various forms of martial arts; in addition to those found in DI
    there will also be Savate, Dirty Infighting, and Wrestling; The
    "basic" package will include the first five maneuvers.

  For players who want to create their own packages, the following
  system will be used:

  Start with an existing maneuver: to determine cost and effect:

  1 pt per +1 OCV until +2 OCV, then 2 pts for +1 OCV; maximum change of 3

  -1 pt per -1 OCV until -2 OCV, then -2 pts for -1 OCV; maximum change of 3

  1 pt per -1 DCV until +2 DCV, then 2 pts for -1 DCV; maximum change of 3

  -1 pt per +1 DCV until -2 DCV, then 2 pts for -1 DCV; maximum change of 3

  1 pt per 1d6 until 26, then 2 pts per 1d6; 4d6 maximum

  1 pts per +v/5 OCV, DCV, or DC

  2 pts per +v/3 OCV, DCV, or DC

  -2 pts per-v/S OCV, DCV, or DC


  1 pt per Damage Class of killing until 2 (1/2d6 KA), then 2 pts per
    damage Class; maximum of 4 DCs (1d6 + 1 KA)

  1 pt per 1/2d6 NND until 1d6; then 2 pts per 1/2 d6 killing;
    maximum 2d6 NND


 Cost       OCV DCV Normal          NND         Killing

 1 pt       +1    +1    +1d6        1/2 NND     1 pt KA

 2 pt       +2    +2    +2d6        1d6 NND     1/2 d6 KA


 3 pt

 4 pt       +3    +3    +3d6        1 1/2d6 NND 1 d6 KA

 5 pt

 6 pt                   +4d6        2d6 NND     1d6+1 KA


No DCV modifier can be higher than +5, and no OCV modifier
can be higher than +2. No single maneuver may cost more than
5 pts.  The minimum cost for a martial arts package is 15 pts.


Package Deals: Char mins no longer exist.  Henceforth all 
package deals are worth a flat bonus at the following rates:

                                   5 point Package  - +1 pt

                                   10 point package - +2 pts

                                   15 point package - +3 pts

This bonus is in addition to any bonus given for disadvantages
associated with the package itself.



  * Skill Levels: These will have 2 breakdowns:

     3 point levels  - +1 with any three related Skills/Powers, or movement

     5 point levels  - +1 with any single category of Skills/Powers

     8 pt levels     - +1 with all skills

     10 pt levels    - +1 with any roll

  Weapon Familiarities: You will not be required to pay for a
    familiarity for any weapon you spent point for (as in Champions).
    This is not needed in superhero games... 


				  NEW SKILLS

  Jack of all Trades: This 3 pt skill will give its user +1 
    pt with all his Professionai Skills (as per the current
    Scholar Rules).

  Cryptography/Codebreaking: This will be expanded so that 
    its user can code-break in his own epoch.

  Navigation:
    This will allow its user to navigite the contemporary form
    of transportation, be it oars galley or star cruiser.
    Note that frequently later forms of navigation will
    partially or completely incorporate earlier forms of
    navigation (steamship captains often know something about
    sailships). 

  * Sleight of Hand: There will be a gready expaded section
    on how to use this skill for picking pockets.
    
  * Oratory: This skill will be divorced from Persuasion, and
    will be the skill used to talk to and convince large groups
    of people.  It would add to the PRE attacks used against
    large groups.

  * Tactics: This General Skill would involve the use of small
    unit tactics to defeat the enemy.  It will function as a
    military form of the Deduction Skill; the GM can give the
    player information on his enemy's intentions after a successful roll. 

  * Scientist: This is now a 3 point skill, and imparts a 9 + INT/5
    roll.  This reflects a baseline knowledge of science, and
    the ability to perform simple experiments given the proper
    equipments and texts.  Most Scientists will buy specific Scienccs,
    which can then be used as secondary skills. 

  Traveler: This 3 pt skill will function as Scholar for City
    Knowledges, Area Knowledges, Culture Knowledges.

  Carousing: This skill would enable its user to be the "life of
    the party", with the obvious applications of creating harmless -
    but effective - distractions, winning drinking contests, etc.
    Culture would be an obvious secondary skill for High-brow soirees,
    while streetwise might help in scummy bars. 

				TALENTS

This new category will include those effects will include all
the psychic abilities, alien powers, and other capabilities
that look like skills but don't really work that way.  These are
also unaffected by powver modificrs, limitations, and advantages,
except with special permission from the GM.   Talents do not
cost END.

  Find Weakness: This is the uncanny ability to find weaknesses in
    an opponent.  The mechanic is the same as before, but Find
    Weakness affects all of the attacker's attacks.  Cost remains
    the same, and lack of weakness still exists. 

  * Danger Sense: This will cost a base of 10 pts for an 11- roll,
    and will be +1 per 5 pts.  For this base, a successful roll will


    prevent the character from being surprised in combat.  For +5 pts
    the character will not be surprised when out of combat; he will
    notice surprise attacks before they occur if they could be noticed
    given the character's senses.  For +5 more points this ability
    becomes mystical, and the character will be prepared for any
    danger to his person, regardless of the source. 

    This power can also allow the character to sense more generalized
    danger.  For +5 pts he can detect danger in his immediate vicinity;
    for +10 pts he can detect danger in his general area (city); for
    +15 points, he can detect any danger over by area (GM's discretion,
    planetary level is usually a reasonable bound).  Note that this
    power does not necessarily give the character the ability to
    deal with the danger. 

  * Luck:  As before this costs 1d6 per 5 points, but there is now
    no upper limit to the amount of luck a character can purchase.
    Note that a player never rolls his luck; luck rolls are made
    entirely at the GMs' discretion (about 3 times per session of
    play).  There will also be an expanded section detailing when
    Luck dice should be rolled (i.e. infrequenty). 

  * Universal Translator: 20 pts, +1 to roll for 2 pts This allows
    the character to make an INT roll to understand any form of
    communication; from verbal speech to body language.  The roll
    would be made with minuses for increased distance from known
    communication forms; conversely languages similar to those
    already encountered would get a bonus.  This roll could be
    improved with increased time of study.  This power only enables
    its user to understand the communication; it does not
    automatically enable him to communicate back unless he has the
    proper physical attributes.  (If the butterfly people "talk"
    by reflecting light off their wings, a human translator could
    understand them but he could not talk back.  GMs should
    carefully consider the consequences of this talent before
    allowing it into their campaigns. 

  * Mind  Link: A variation of telepathy; Mind Link allows the
    character to set up a specific link with a receptive mind, allowing
    instant communication and information exchange.  Characters who
    want to be able to "Read minds" or communicate with unwilling
    subjects should buy telepathy.  Mind Link cost 10 pts, with 2x
    as many targets for 5 pts.  Once established, Mind Link does
    not require line of sight, and is only broken when either the
    subject or possessor desires it.  Mind Link communication is
    always voluntary; it doesn't allow "reading of minds" so much
    as it allows for instant mind-to-mind communication. 

  * JI/DI  Talents: These will no longer automatically have a -5 to
    the roll for conscious attempts, although this will be recommended
    for some genres (those involving mystery/horror).  Note that
    many have been removed since they were duplicated by existing powers. 

  Absolute Time Sense 3

  Bump of Direction 3

  Double Jointed 3


  Lightning Calculator 3

  Perfect Pitch 3

  Immunity 1,2, or 3. Note that the current system is backwards;
    henceforth common poisons will cost 3 pts for immunity, while
    the rare ones will cost 1.

  Simulate Death 5/2

  Combat Sense 5/2 This will allow the character to counter punch
    if attacked by a H-to-H attack while in darkness.

  Defense Manuver 5  This also kills the multiple attacker bonus. 

  Eidetic Memory 10

  Speed Reading 3

                                 PERQUISITES

This category will include all those good things which the
character receives from the world, but that are not innate 
abilitics per se.  Note that these are often transitory in nature,
a character can earn and then lose numerous perks over the course
of adventuring.

  Fringe Benifits (Were open to suggestions on a better name):
    This will include a longer list with medieval and Sci-fi
    examples, along with recomended costs. 

  Contacts: As they are.                                    

  Favors: As they are.

  Money:  This will be greatly expanded, according to the general
    guidelines laid down in the article in Dragon so long ago.

    10 pt Disad: Destitute - so poor that the character is unable
    to be sure of eating day to day; cannot pay for bus fare, has
    no fixed address, etc. 

    5 pt Disad - Extremely Poor: Character is unemployed, in debt,
    and unable to make by large purchases.  He might be hounded by
    creditors, or simply have a number of outstanding financial
    obligations (like a large family).  He is forced to take jobs
    where he can get them. 

    O pts - "Middle" Class: This will be the standard income 
    level for most PCs; it ranges from just above the poverty level
    to reasonably well off.  Characters who are middle class can
    make occasional large purchases, be financially secure enough
    to withstand sudden reverses of fortune, etc. 

    5 pts - Well Off: This character has more than enough moncy
    to support himself; he can take lengthy leaves from work and
    not fecl the financial pinch.  He can make major purchases
    with some regularity, and probably owns numerous vehicles,
    homes, etc. 


    15 pts - Rich: Character is a typical multi-millionaire, and
    has the capacity to do, or buy, pretty much whatever he/she
    pleases in the financial realm.

    Note that these rates are more than just a character's starting
    value; they reflect his expenses/income, not just his current
    wealth.  Thus a poor character not only lacks money, but he is
    probably also an inveterate gambler or has a large family with
    associated expenses.  Even if he falls into a great deal of
    money he will soon again be poor, unless the character buys
    off the disadvantage.  Conversely, a wealthy character who
    suffered a financial reverse would likely eventually regain
    his wealthy status through family connections, good credit or
    whatever.  Note that these rules are very much optional; GMs
    who keep close track of a character's financial status should
    probably not use them. 

  Base and Vehicle Rules: Still coming.

